# Komponent-bibliotek

## Table of Contents
1. [How to use](#how-to-use)
2. [Creating a new component](#creating-a-new-component)
3. [Setting up the new component](#setting-up-the-new-component)
4. [How to run the components](#how-to-run-the-components)

## How to use

Install the packages with yarn, npm will not work correctly

1. yarn install
2. run the validation script //under construction
3. start dev servers

```javascript
$yarn install       // use yarn over npm for compatability issues
$yarn docs:dev      // docs:dev starts the vitepress documentation page
yarn cypress:dev    // cypress:dev starts the cypress testing view
```

## Creating a new component

this project is following the Atomic Design pattern.
The Atomic design pattern consists of:

### Atoms

Atoms are the smallest pieces of the components. when you cannot break down a component any more then it is probably
mostly suited for being an Atom.

### Molecules

Molecules are made of groups of Atoms built together to create something more complex. They are still simple but can be made up by Atoms.

### Organisms

Organisms are more complex components made up by both Atoms and Molecules. They are suited for covering a distinct part or feature of a page.

### Templates

Templates are complete pages ready for custom data. They can act as a page that just take in data to display the appropriate information and structure it the correct way.

### Pages

Pages are fully complete with all data needed and is the final product that will be shown and does not need anything to function completely.

## Setting up the new component

Each component should have:
* A vue file for the template
```vue
<template>
  <div class="__TEMPLATE__">

  </div>
</template>

<script>
import '@/index.css';

export default {
  name: "__TEMPLATE__"
}
</script>

<style scoped>
@import "./__TEMPLATE__.css";

</style>
```

* A CSS file for custom css


* A cy.js file for the cypress component testing

```javascript
import {mount} from 'cypress/vue'
import __TEMPLATE__ from './__TEMPLATE__.vue'

describe('__TEMPLATE__', () => {
    it('', () => {
        mount(__TEMPLATE__)
        cy.get('.__TEMPLATE__')
    })
})
```

* A documentation file for documenting the component

```markdown
# __TEMPLATE__

## How to use

this is how you use it

## When and where to use

this is where and when to use it

```

To more easily create a new component, make a copy of the template-folder that's inside of the components folder.

( This step should be autogenerated later ) \
The documentation file should also be placed inside the root's  ```docs/components/``` folder

## How to run the components

To run your components during development, use the cypress component test tool. it will test it both visually and functionally.